in the previous lecture we have seen how
to convert NFA to DFA and in this
lecture we will be seeing another
example of converting an NFA to a DFA
alright so let's get started
okay so here we have an example language
L which is the set of all strings over
zero one that ends with one so what we
have to do is we have to design the NFA
for a language that accepts the set of
all strings over zero one that ends with
one and after designing the NFA we will
convert it to its equivalent DFA okay so
let's see how we can do this so here my
inputs symbols are 0 & 1 so how can we
design the NFA for this I will first
have a starting state which is state a
is my starting state and a on getting
input either 0 or 1 it stays in a itself
and if air gets the next input that is 1
then we send it to the final state which
I call state B that means in the
beginning I don't care what it is
let it be 0 or 1 but when the last
string is 1 if we get the final string s
or the final symbol as 1 then it goes to
final state B and in B we don't mention
what happens after that because we want
it to come to B and be there if if we
mention something else in B that means
that will not be the last string so this
is an NFA so I don't mention what
happens B goes nowhere after this
reverse season NFA so this is the N F a
designed the
ffs order language which accept a set of
all strings over zero one that ends with
one now let me draw the transition table
the state transition table for this NFA
so what would be the elements in my
eight state transition table I'll have
my inputs 0 & 1 here and here I'll have
my states which are a and B and a on
getting input 0 where does it go a on
getting input 0 it stays in itself stays
in itself and a on getting input 1 what
happens to a in on getting input 1 it
stays in a itself and also it goes to B
it has two transitions so that is why I
am using this set notation here a comma
B a on getting input one goes to both a
and B and B on getting input 0 where
does it go it goes nowhere beyond
getting input 1 where does it go it go
no it goes nowhere
so we'll write it as Phi B does not go
anywhere so now we have the state
transition diagram for the NFA now let
us try to convert it to the equivalent
DFA so for that let us draw the state
transition diagram for the equivalent in
DFA now what we are going to design is
the DFA so let us try to convert this to
its equivalent state transition table
for DFA for that again I'll have my
inputs 0 & 1 and first of all let me
start with state a let us make the
transition table by looking at this
table a on getting input 0 where does it
go it goes to a itself goes to itself
and a on getting input 1 where does it
go on getting input 1 it goes to two
states a and B but this is a DFA in a
DFA a state on getting a particular
input it can go only to one state it
cannot go to more than one states so I
cannot send it to two states a and B so
what I will do here is that
I will combine these two states a and B
and I will make them one state and I
will call it a B all right so a B is not
two States but a B is a single state so
a B it is a single state single state
okay so coming to the next state the
next state in this transition table is
state B but can we directly write state
B here
before writing that state B directly
just look at these two states that you
have written and see if state B is
reachable from any of these states we
see that B cannot be reached from here
anywhere you don't see be anywhere so
the only state that can be reached is a
and a B and we have already written for
a so the next state that we have to
discuss is a B not B all right should be
a B so we will discuss about state a B
now in order to know where does a B go
on getting input 0 and 1 we have to come
to this table and we see that this is a
B so you have to look at both a and B in
this table and see where a both a and B
a goes on getting input 0 and 1 so in
order to see where does a B go on
getting input 0 you have to perform the
Union operation of KMP we have already
discussed Union operation in the
previous lectures so I hope you remember
that so in order to see where does a big
one getting input 0 we perform the union
of a and B so in union of a and B means
union of a and Phi and union of a and
Phi is a it's only a alright and where
does a B go and getting input 1 a B on
getting input 1 I have to perform the
Union operations of a and B on getting
input 1 Union operation of a B and Phi
you know operation of a B and 5 will be
a be he be okay
so I have written for a B now do I have
to write for state B if I look here
there is no way I can reach state B the
only way I can reach is through a B so
you don't need to write for this state B
this transition table for this DFA is
complete okay so now let us draw the
state transition diagram for this DFA
that we have designed so I have two
states a and a B a which is also my
starting state or initial State and then
a B a B is a single state and also a B
will be my final state we will be my
final state and a on getting input 0
where does it go it goes to itself a on
getting input 0 goes to a itself and
then a on getting input 1 where does it
go it goes to a B in on getting input 1
it goes to a B and a B on getting input
0 where does it go it goes to a a B on
getting input 0 goes to state a maybe on
getting input 1 where does it go
it stays in a B itself a B on getting
input 1 it stays in a B itself so now we
have designed the DFA for this NFA the
restrictive it is complete I have
mentioned in state a where it goes on
getting input 0 and 1 maybe also I have
mentioned where it goes on getting input
0 and 1 okay so it is complete and let
us see if it is going to accept the set
of all strings over 0 1 that ends with 1
we see that whenever the last symbol is
1 it comes to the final state and when
it is 1 it stays in the final state and
if it is a 0 it goes to state a which is
not a final state so it will accept all
the strings that ends with 1 so this is
how you convert the NFA to its
equivalent DFA and the method that we
have used here in this example and also
in the previous example for converting
an affair to DFA is known as sub
construction method is known as subset
construction method so this is the
method that we followed in these two
examples for converting this an affair
to the equivalent DFA so I hope this
example was clear to you thank you for
watching and see you in the next one
where we will be discussing another
example
[Applause]
[Music]